okay so welcome everyone this is we're
talking with feral cat is that right yes
and so feral helped me understand a
little bit about so first of all thank
you so much for coming on stream today
and I'd love to hear a little bit about
what you thought about our last stream
and sort of what motivated you to come
on stream today yeah it really impressed
me like I really liked what you had to
say about especially the part about just
gamers and kind of their mindset and
stuff like that and I think I've
experienced something similar for sure
like back in the spring pretty sure I
was like I guess addicted to gaming like
I could stop but um-hmm the things that
you were saying really you were really
relatable so okay and when you say the
things that I was saying what do you
think was applicable to your situation
back in in the spring um
I think you said like one thing that
really resonated and it was more like
you know what you need to do but you
don't do it and so I think that for sure
like I would kind of just like play
games all day or like try to improve
force training stuff like that but I
wasn't focused on like my personal goals
as well
and so I definitely like interference re
my cat's gonna make it appearance so
yeah so so and but it sounds like you
were saying that that that in march or
earlier that was an issue so that
implies that things have gotten better
yes so I like kind of put a limit on
myself now a hug days where I don't have
class or something like that and I'll
give myself a certain amount of free
time or like a certain amount of gains
or something and then just kind of go
from there and not play anymore and I
still give myself a little bit too much
free time sometimes but it's I don't
think I that's me I'm like I don't know
if they're like happy the right word um
but it's a different kind of reward I
guess it's more like a pretty time sort
of yeah sure so Farrell if I can push
you a little bit on that like so why
didn't you do that in the spring like
what's
um well during that time like I was
actually on a medication that was giving
me like really bad anxiety and probably
like depression now that I think back on
it but I just wasn't realizing it then
and and I think that I guess like
playing games was more like just to kind
of not think about it for sure because
like it was hard for me to know the
class or like just get everything done
stuff like that so now I've like cleared
up those sort of issues and I think
clearing up like the physical issues and
also like some I mean not completely
like the mental issues with it but that
definitely helped a lot so I got a toss
out a disclaimer at this point so you
know I'm a psychiatrist but I can i
expense medical advice over the internet
yeah
and so I'm glad that you know if you so
this is a common problem I do see is
that people a lot of gamers get started
on medication because they sort of fit a
bucket right so when you go and see a
psychiatrist or a therapist a lot of
times like they haven't I mean no one
really gets trained in video game
addiction right now because we don't
really understand it so you'll get a lot
of people a lot of times people will get
started on things like medications and
those will have side effects it's
actually a really common problem that I
see I'm sorry you had to go through that
yeah that's okay um the medication I was
on wasn't like related to like anxiety
depression okay the side effects came
from it yeah okay yeah so so it now it
sounds like things are going better for
you right yeah they're going better
um on in that aspect I guess if that
makes sense like I'm able to kind of
pull myself out of those situations
better that makes sense so yeah so what
situation are you pulling yourself out
of um I think just getting like I kind
of get into a cycle of letting myself be
lazy innocence or like letting myself
you know just kind of put actual
responsibility aside and just like play
games or like even stream I already say
I like stream too much because like
streaming is very exhausting I guess
like you have to put a lot of energy out
for that so I think if you're gonna sit
back up a game than not stream it's a
bit more addicting in that sense um but
now I I know like when I'm I guess going
too far I guess now I'm like okay
like we need to do some responsibilities
like be productive now instead of just
um what about streaming is exhausting um
I think as a streamer or like you kind
of just have to be on at all times so be
like keep your viewers or like entertain
your audience stuff like that so mm-hmm
backing definitely it really tiring
especially whenever inside you really
just kind of one sit there if you like
oh I just want to like kind of lay back
for a minute and just like chill out but
it's if you do that you know you I think
I don't know if that's a common problem
with streamers but you married yeah you
might lose your viewers or you know
something I get bored like what if
somebody came in at that minute like
there are even videos on YouTube that
tell you like you you know you never
know whenever someone is going to stop
into your stream and whenever they do
you want to be on and like be
entertaining so they stay which is like
I guess a good tip but kind of not good
for your mentality yes so what happens
if someone comes on to your stream and
you're not firing on all cylinders um I
mean I think I can kind of give this
from my experience just going into other
people's dreams too and of course I like
don't do this on purpose have I already
established a relationship with someone
or something like that I would say but
you're going to someone's new stream and
they're just sitting there like not
talking I guess it could definitely not
be as entertaining first of all you have
to walk into so what's wrong with that
yeah um I think it makes it really hard
on the streamer it makes it very
mentally exhausting and like I don't
know how else to describe it but yeah so
I guess I'm asking us like my question
was a little bit vague so I understand
that it's mentally exhausting what I'm
saying is what's wrong with you being on
stream and someone coming and not being
entertained I guess a streamer either
self or like me personally I would not
feel like I'm doing something wrong in a
sense but I guess kind of that's how I
would feel yeah yeah yeah right so so
let's think about that for a second what
are you doing wrong technically nothing
but absolutely but that's not how it
feels right so what what what do you
what do you feel like you're doing wrong
I think in that moment I would it would
be like not growing my stream it would
you know yeah there you go
right so why is it important to grow
your stream I think both feeling
successful with it and knowing you've
put so much time into it that it like if
you're doing it for nothing
why are you doing it and I think that
gets kind of hard because a lot of
people start for fun and say like I know
I started for fun and I didn't care
about views and stuff like that and to
an extent I have to kind of push myself
away from caring about that at the same
time I think a lot of people put you
know themselves for Twitch's goals for
like partnership or something like that
like certain viewership and it makes it
hard to not focus on the numbers because
how else do you track your success I
guess yeah so what so you said you
started out streaming for fun
and then why do you stream now um it
yeah I actually took a break over the
summer because I think I kind of lost
sight of why I did stream and other
issues as well but um I try not to
stream if I'm having if I know that I'm
about to stream for the wrong reasons
that makes sense like if I'm like oh I'm
only gonna stream because it's going to
please everyone
or because I'm not keeping to my
schedule or whatever so now I kind of
try to spin you know whenever I'm in a
good mindset and I know that I'm doing
it I want to have fun and like connect
with everyone and yeah so okay mm-hmm
that sounds like a big point of personal
growth for you right definitely I think
I needed I took like a two-month break
from it and if I wouldn't have I don't
know if I'd still be storming it so yeah
so so let's just think a little bit
about like so it sounds like you started
out streaming for fun and then something
changed and then you kind of like dove
in a little bit too deep you started
streaming for quote-unquote all of the
wrong reasons
yeah and then you took a break and now
you're kind of back into it with like
you know sort of enjoyment and fun
you're kind of streaming for the
original reasons
right so what was it that changed there
in the middle how did streaming become
not very fun for you um I remember there
was a time back in December where I
guess my starting started picking up a
lot and I got pretty close to like
getting partnered except um I wasn't
streaming enough days I guess and so
what I've liked realize now is that I
didn't know why I was like avoid
streaming at that point but I think I
thought I wasn't going to get it anyway
so if I just kind of like didn't stream
up days I could like blame it on that
reason if that makes sense
yeah that's beautiful can we talk about
that because I think that's something
that so I want to introduce this concept
to you guys of ego right so like our ego
is a very very fragile thing and the
more confident we become actually the
smaller our ego becomes and so I know
that like when I was so part of the
reason that I skipped class is because
if I went to class and then got a bad
grade on the test then I was stupid
right but if I skipped class then the
reason that I got a bad grade is like I
have this out for my ego right like it's
like okay so if I'm if I'm half-assing
it that's the reason I didn't get the
partnership it's not because I actually
tried my hardest and I'm not good enough
right no that's exactly why I skipped
class too sometimes so yeah yeah so
Farrell where do you get the idea that
you may not be good enough um you know
I've talked about this a little bit
before so I think I have a better idea
now but um I think it definitely has to
do with just past like relationships
like romantic and with my parents and
stuff so yeah yeah so so as we can see
on screen so you're becoming a little
bit more uncomfortable yeah I guess
though yeah yeah so something about your
facial expression in your tone and stuff
change it's okay we're just gonna steer
clear to a different topic so you can
relax the other thing that tends to
happen is sometimes when you point out
that people are becoming um
will they become even more uncomfortable
okay and but so I think that that's well
I'm gonna kind of steer a little bit
because I'm new to doing this over the
internet like I have a relationship with
Kangas oh I don't mind diving in with
him but I feel a little bit more
protective I don't mind being
uncomfortable okay okay I mean do you
wanna so Farrell we're at a fork in the
road right so we can talk a little bit
more about streaming or we can talk a
little bit more about you what would you
prefer yeah I'm glad you are so you know
a couple of other ground rules so like
if there's anything that you don't want
to talk about just say that and you know
the viewers can go screw themselves
so it's you know remember that we're
Altima Twiggy R for you and and this
isn't a show I mean the goal of this is
to help people not actually entertain
people so right that's true
well I think I haven't really ever
talked about streaming with the
therapists or anything so I think that
would also be helpful for me too yeah so
so why does so when when we said when
you start to stream I guess that you
know what it sounds like what started to
happen is you had certain reasons which
were yours but then something changed
and you started to feel judged or more
insidiously valued mm-hmm based on the
content of your stream right so I think
it was a combination of like people kind
of pushing me I guess are like also
expecting more like definitely like chat
has a way of like some things if they
say that I think kind of like eat a lot
of streamers is it whenever anyone
comments on like viewcount like low or
high like even if some was like oh my
god like you have like a thousand
viewers or something or oh you only have
two viewers you know something like that
like either way I don't like those
comments because I turn my viewer count
off because I don't like yeah I don't
know it'll it'll mess with me you know
so I try not to look at it and that
helps me just kind of like have a more
pleasant stream in general and also I
think people will just be like oh wow
what are you gonna apply for partner
when are you gonna do this like you know
so many viewers or even the comments
like oh wow you should have more
why do you only have this mini I think
that's a mint is a compliment but it's
kind of like low-key not a compliment
it's like yeah it's like nagging right
right yeah it's like what are you doing
wrong yeah like why don't you yeah yeah
so so what I think it's a really
insightful point on your part to
recognize that viewership has this kind
of impact on you so let's dig down a
little bit further like why do you turn
off viewers what is it what are all
these comments do to you so I can't
remember when exactly I started turning
off viewers it was definitely probably
like nine to ten months ago I used to
leave it on because I wanted to like see
what games did better or like what
viewers but like wow that's a really
unhealthy way to look at it what's
unhealthy about that I think like if
you're putting yourself through playing
something you don't really like just to
get more viewers that's just like it
anything like you're not gonna be happy
and you're I don't know it'll just put
you in a negative mood like that's what
I yeah I think that's definitely true so
so if it's okay with you Fredo will dig
why why I think whenever you're doing
something only for other people's like I
guess it's kind of a roundabout way like
it's for their entertainment yet it
coming back for your views so that's
kind of how you justify it but at the
end of the day it's like you're not
happy with what you're doing I think
that's where you start streaming for the
wrong reasons
yeah so I'm gonna toss out a word hmm
authentic versus inauthentic yeah right
yeah I think that's I think authenticity
would be whenever you'd assume whatever
gain you want yeah we were for sure so I
work with a lot of people who suffer a
lot and I think that the biggest thing
that I found is that when a human being
is living a life that they feel
authentic that it feels good to them
right and if we kind of circle if we
circle back to like you know why you
started out streaming that felt
authentic to me yeah and then after you
took your break you actually sort of
rediscovered your authenticity right
and the funny thing about streaming is
that like as you stream you start to
adopt like a value system which is like
quantifiable which actually our brains
are wired to do right we think about
these things like let's say popularity
in high school which is like such a
vague thing but now we have a way to
actually quantify and this may sound
judgmental so I apologize but we have a
way to quantify your value as a human
being yeah it's the number of viewers
you get it's the number of partnerships
you get it's a way for you to rank
yourself in terms of value compared to
other people did you find yourself like
when you were in the dark place of
streaming did you find yourself
comparing yourself to other people yeah
for sure like I would oh my gosh yeah I
don't know if anyone else does this I'm
sure they do but I would find myself
like I guess comparing myself to other
people who had like similar number of
followers and being like well okay if we
have like a similar number of followers
why are they getting this videos I'm
getting this many of you do something
like that like it was crazy like that if
I did that now I would drive itself
insane
so yeah I don't know I would do that and
then I think one thing that I would
definitely do is like not even play
games because a lot of girls will get
more viewers in like the just chatting
section where I mean I guess that's what
y'all are streaming in now but you can
just kind of talk about whatever and
people who would lose interest if you
would start playing games and so I just
wouldn't yeah
like and that was not very enjoyable
like I started streaming to play games
like and make friends you know so yeah
yeah so what was it with it so there's
so like let's just think a little bit
about this for a second there was
something inside you that was driving
you to do things that you did not enjoy
and made you suffer right yeah what the
hell was that I like I guess the shallow
answer that would be to like oh just
grit your teeth through this so you can
get partner okay so why is that a
shallow answer um I'm sure there are
deeper issues to that
but I'm not exactly sure what they are I
guess so
so Farrell you you do something
sometimes rarely which is that you make
self judgmental or self-critical
statements you devalue yourself do you
see that like this is a shout like why
is that a shallow answer I guess it's
not yeah I mean I would encourage you to
think a little bit about you know it's I
mean I think that that is a deep answer
right that that like I think that
there's a part of you that it it looks
like you have a lot of really positive
qualities which I think are getting
hijacked by the streaming which is that
it sounds like you're oriented towards
success like you're calculating you
you're like optimizing I'd be very
curious if you're comfortable sharing so
I just realized you know before we
started stream that I asked you where
you're from and I guess maybe I
shouldn't do those kinds of things on
stream it's like a natural thing but
okay anyway I was from Houston so
anytime I see another Texan I get did
you watch any do you watch college
football there was a there was a couple
of good games yesterday but oh I guess
not the right platform right for twitch
but so just to kind of think back a
little bit about like you know you're
saying about this stuff is shallow but I
don't think so
right because you don't strike me as a
very and forgive me a maybe this is the
judgmental statement you don't strike me
as a very shallow person do you feel
like a shallow person nope okay so what
was it that caused you to kind of what
what mattered to like so you value
viewership partnership what is it within
you that values that right because
whatever that thing is is causing you to
engage in behaviors that cause you a lot
of like suffering right so what is that
thing definitely like the feeling of
success I guess I think that's the best
answer for that absolutely
otherwise what I would keep doing it
yeah and what is that feeling what does
that mean I'm feeling I mean because
good so
I think putting yourself through those
bad feelings do you feel the good
success does that sound good to you
no not entirely but yeah so I'm gonna
also ask you to think a little bit about
whether so we have this blanket idea
that success is better than failure
mm-hmm right what do you think about
that I think it's something I tell
myself a lot is not true but I don't
think I completely internalized that
yeah but what do you tell yourself let's
let's go well I think I don't know so
much of worth streaming well I have an
example with streaming too but
definitely with school like that's
something I'm trying to kind of flip
around so that that's what I've been
telling myself this semester is it's
better to go even if I do bad though we
shall learn from it um whereas I used to
just not go because you know like you
said earlier you wouldn't even have a
chance to be bad so yeah um with
streaming I think whenever I came back
to it early August I pretty much had to
tell myself like okay like even if I
lost pretty much everyone and all I have
you know one beer that comes back like
it's I'm gonna do it for the original
reasons and I just want to be fun again
so okay so Farrell I'd like to change
gears for a second and offer a couple of
general principles which I think may
apply to our viewership but so I want
you to notice so there's something that
I think about which is an action
orientation versus an outcome
orientation so sometimes people focus on
the actions and sometimes people focus
on the outcomes and generally speaking I
think that gamers because games sort of
train our brain to do this they care
about the outcome right like a lot of
times if you think about a game it's not
about whether you played a good game
it's about whether you won or lost right
right so they're like goals and their
objectives and things like that and and
would you say that you tend to focus on
outcomes or do you focus on actions I
think I focus on okay what do you think
about that I think that makes
in between from start to finish
less enjoyable I guess he's like I guess
in a game if you're doing really bad and
you still win it's like well that kind
of sucks but at least you got the win or
like you know the rank up or whatever
and then I guess in classes I kind of
see myself doing that too like oh if it
says on the syllabus oh well your final
replaces your lowest grade or something
like that
like I just won't care about one exam
and then leave it to the final and
whenever I get there I'm always like wow
I really shouldn't have done that so
yeah so so I want to ask you so we were
talking a little bit about you know you
were saying that nowadays you decided
recently that you're gonna go to school
anyway because at least even if you
don't do well you'll learn something is
that is that focusing on an action or
focusing on an outcome I think in
delaying and it doesn't matter what the
outcome is yeah so how does that make
you feel better better yeah so let me
ask you when you started streaming where
you focused on actions or where you
focused on outcomes oh my god I'm so
excited to go live you know not oh my
god like what absolutely and then when
you started when streaming started to be
crappy for you where you focused on
actions or outcomes outcomes for sure
because I would make myself go live and
be like even if this light was not fun
for me at least I'll get that extra day
with the viewership towards the
partnership or whatever absolutely and
now that you've recharged right are you
focusing on actions or outcomes and
streaming definitely actions like I may
go a week without streaming just because
I have to put school first and it
doesn't bother me like it does a little
bit but not near to the extent it used
to like I'll be like people will still
be there if they're not and they're not
understanding like I don't really want
them there anyway so yeah I'm more doing
it for fun I actually do not care about
partnership at all now like if I don't
get partnered it does not a big deal to
me what what is partnership by the way
can you explain that
that's kind of like whatever like I see
y'all are
out to the affiliates on here so
basically you can start getting subs and
then you start making money from subs
and then partnership is kind of where a
company will start taking you more
seriously and I guess people will start
seeing you more it's a serious streamer
yeah it's like getting verified on
something oh my god so ok yeah I think
that's one of the main goals for a lot
of yeah so I just want to kind of tunnel
down for this or just restate this so I
mean if we listen to Farrell's story
right we see a pretty classic thing
where you start out like being yourself
right and you're like doing things for
the sake of fun and all that good stuff
and then instead of like doing streaming
for the sake of streaming you start
streaming for the sake of something else
right you're not doing the thing for the
sake of the thing and I think a lot
about this so I work with a lot of
gamers around you know Fitness is
another issue and a lot of people will
like come into my office and we'll say
like oh you know I wanna I wanna get in
shape right and they focus on this
target of getting in shape so Farrell
let me ask you can you get in shape yeah
well yeah so I would argue that actually
you it's impossible to get in shape
because what does that even mean like
yeah that's like some arbitrary and yeah
absolutely
right not only is it arbitrary it's also
like not quantifiable at least with
partnership you've got a grade but
something like getting in shape so
people like or like oh I want to get in
shape and then the problem with focusing
on an outcome is that if you have a
setback you feel like a failure yeah and
the cool thing about what you've managed
to do is you've started to focus on your
actions which is like I'm not gonna
worry about whether I get in shape or
not is like I don't care about what I
care about is doing ten push-ups a day
like I'm gonna do ten push-ups a day and
I think what's what's cool is like you
know you're starting to say like okay
I'm gonna stream for the sake I'm just
gonna start streaming I'm gonna like
that's the equivalent of just doing ten
push-ups a day and if I get partnership
fantastic if I don't get partnership
that's fine too I'm gonna go to class do
you mind if I ask what you're studying
biomedical science
and what do you want to do with that do
you know uh well I'm kind of going back
to I wanted to do like pre PA okay
awesome I think that also having like a
goal in mind it's very hard for me to do
something without having a goal so
whatever I was just studying and not
having like a goal like that because I
used to be like pre-med pre PA but I
kind of steered away from that and now
I'm good for you yeah that's what I want
to do yeah good I had a very similar so
I was pre-med when I entered college but
I was pre-med because I was brown and
you know my parents were doctors and
things like that and like that's what
the brown kids did at the University of
Texas at Austin as they were all pre-med
right and then decided not to become a
doctor and then years later decided that
I needed to become a doctor right and I
think there's a lot of value in sort of
arbitrarily doing something because you
kind of put a target to it and then sort
of really doing some soul-searching like
so now it sounds like you're circling
back to it and it's something that
you're serious about yeah so my parents
are the same like they expected me to be
an engineer or a doctor like something
like that um and I was super super
motivated like freshman year sophomore
year and then I wasn't doing it for me
so that is can't stick I think you
helped though yeah um yeah so then once
I I don't I've been thinking about it
for the past like month or so and I
noticed that I do this like I kind of
search for like approval things so like
I'll tell people things before I even
know what I think of it and so I told
myself like I am NOT going to do that at
this time like I'm not going to mention
it to anyone and so I've been thinking
about it for about a month now again not
men to me to anyone and not losing
interest because sometimes it'll just
kind of come back and I'll be like maybe
and then kind of never think about it
again but yeah I didn't lose interest
and then I started to kind of be like
okay now I can ask people just to get
kind of like help I guess because I'm I
feel very behind now but it's okay I
willing to work through it so um so I'm
a little bit curious about this thing
that you said where are you kind of like
you didn't even realize that you wanted
do something but you ask other people
about it first mm-hmm
can you can you help me understand that
a little bit so I think like the second
something pops into my mind like oh this
sounds interesting to me I'll like tell
someone and I think not because I'm
excited about it maybe that's part of it
but more maybe I want to see what they
think about it if that makes sense
yeah why do you do that honestly
probably to searching for like approval
to make me feel good about it that's
fantastic
yeah that's the right answer so the next
question is what is it that makes you
feel like you need other peoples I've
asked you this before he said that has
something to do with prior romantic
relationships right yeah and my parents
yeah so and yeah and that's common by
the way so if you guys have Tiger yeah
like you have Tiger parents no no my mom
yeah
is it is it okay if I ask some questions
about your relationship with them tell
us about your mom now we are doing the
psychiatry not really like puts the
goals on me but um I'm into this before
I think I don't remember if it was in
this interview but she really only cares
about my appearance and how our
appearances to other people if N says
but I think very common in Texas yeah I
could I mean I say I could care less and
there's definitely a little part of me
that just like cares because that's kind
of how I was like brought up but in
general I tried to not care about that
because it just makes me not happy but
um yeah and she puts goals on me and
like then doesn't really offer any
emotional help if that makes sense like
she tries to offer you know like
financial or like physical help or
anything like that but whenever it comes
to like like I could probably do that on
my own you know like for example if I
move into a new place she will try to
come over every week to like organize
things for me I'm like I can organize
things like I don't need your help
like something like that just very
overbearing but my dad um I'm sorry go
ahead what do you need her help with
well I think now I kind of just like try
to like go away because there's no sense
of boundaries there so I just don't want
to like put myself through the stress of
it um but I think I'm more wish that
there was more emotional like nurturing
when I was younger that make sense I
think that would have helped with yeah
what when you say there you wish there
was more emotional nurturing what do you
mean by that what do you wish she did I
think that's the long answer um I'm
trying to give example would like small
things I guess like like I mentioned now
she would help with anything like
financially or physically but whenever I
guess it came to me making my own
decisions or having my own opinions
about things or even just like speaking
about things like I wasn't allowed to
yeah I would allow that like think on my
own like it wasn't what she thought it
wasn't right yeah yeah so it sounds like
she doesn't believe in opinions it's
just it's all fact right right yeah and
so feral that's that's great that yeah I
think it's really awesome that you're
you know you've started to really
understand this because you know that
happens a lot when like when you have
someone who doesn't allow you to express
your opinions mm-hmm then you end up
sort of needing approval because you
don't learn how to express your opinions
you don't learn how to be confident in
what you believe in yeah and it sounds
like she also had a lot of expectations
I'm just wondering is there any chance
we're like shooting you in the foot
because this is like being streamed on
the internet and you know okay but she's
very disapproving of streaming so yeah
why this well I think literally the only
reason is
because of how it would look to other
people because whenever I first told her
about it she was like okay that's cool
and then I think she told some about it
and they maybe had a bad reaction and
then after that it's just been like you
need to quit like this is stupid
stop doing it everyone like everyone
hates it like you're so sad for keep
keeping on doing it so who's everyone
in everyone hates it like my family or
she'll like she'll bring my dad's
opinions into it about oh he hates it so
much like it's so sad that you're doing
it regardless of what he thinks or
whatever but so I don't I've talked to
him one-on-one like he's like you know I
just want you to be safe like he's just
scared about the you know sort of what's
that even called the swatting or stuff
like that yeah so yeah that that's
actually a real concern so right again
we're being saying like I yeah I totally
understand that but no that's not what
she really I mean I'm sure she concerned
about that too but you can tell me a
little bit about your dad yeah so um he
we have conflicting opinions sometimes
but we both respect those so you guys
disagree right right so we can talk
about things and him be like oh no I
don't think that and I'll be like well I
don't think that remember he's like okay
laughs end of the day we're still gonna
get along it's not gonna cause an
argument so yeah what do you think
Carole who said yeah I think so I guess
I guess sahil had a question that that
domination time asked his cat's mother
projecting her opinions on others what
do you think yeah for sure like it's to
the extent where my grandparents weren't
allowed to talk to me because she didn't
want them to because they were allowing
me to have my own opinions like that's
also crazy saying it now that's why I'm
laughing but it's just like yeah that
way so it sounds like your mom is very
controlling oh yeah for sure so I think
I think I so when your mom comes to you
and says everyone will think less
you if you stream mm-hmm do you think
that that's her opinion or is that is
she projecting her opinion on other
people ooh that's hard it's hard for me
to get into what she thinks I guess like
I she react so differently to so many
situations I can't tell you probably
like I have no idea yeah so um my so
when I work with I'm not gonna ask you
where you're from but I think I may know
just based on the cultures of different
cities in Texas
so you know there's one city in Texas in
particular that people are very very
image conscious there's a lot of old
money there and one of the things that I
noticed about you know a lot of people
who have kind of opinions about what
other people think is it's not so much
that
so is she projecting her opinions on
other people that's possible the other
the other possibility is that actually
her opinion of herself is based upon the
reflection of others that's I think so
I'd say in a funny way it's the opposite
that it's not that she's projecting her
opinion it's that if other people have
this opinion she's gonna own it because
that's real right right so so the funny
thing about we you know we started this
talk by talking about authenticity
mm-hmm how authentic is your mother
0% exactly ya know so now Farrell let me
ask you another question
um how can you guys hear the air
conditioner by the way that does it
sound okay okay I came feral um how much
how happy is your mom ooh
well to other people she's very happy
but in reality I don't think I don't
think so yeah right yeah I mean she
can't be like I don't think happy person
to act like that so yeah yeah and so I
think the really scary thing is that you
know you have a little bit of your
mother inside you right yeah yeah and
unfortunately huh yeah where do you see
it come out
or do you notice it luckily I don't
notice it like a lot but definitely
whenever I'm worried about like
appearance and what other people think
for sure yeah I'm slightly yeah sorry
and that's the kind of thing that's
actually like unfortunately that to a
certain degree Ferrell is baked into you
now yeah sure and I think that you know
it's funny because the struggle that you
have with streaming is probably the
struggle she has every day in her life
mm-hmm
right where where it's it's far more
nebulous but like she's concerned about
how it's going to make you look mm-hmm
if you're someone who streams and like I
don't understand what her impression of
that is is she shared with you what that
is or is it like a it's like a boogie
monster that's unformed and well I can
never get a straight answer out of her
like if I ask anything there's never a
straight answer it's always I'm right
because of this like there's no actual
answer there's no talking about feelings
it's like my opinions right because I'm
right like and when you ask her for a
straight answer what's an example of a
question um well I think left side
actually went over my parents house and
I was just like mentioning that I kind
of wanted to pursue like piei again and
you think that's something would make
someone happy right but it turned into
an argument because I wasn't going to go
about it the exact way that she wanted
me to so I went down to something as
simple as like oh I'm gonna email this
person today
you know oh don't evoke them till Monday
it's rude to email on the weekend I'm
like what okay
I well that's what I said I was like I'm
going to pay them money I don't think
they care when I email like but she was
like oh no like it's not right I turned
into this huge argument like I don't
know why that should ever turn into an
argument but I'm pretty stubborn too so
I just kind of like stood like a peasant
I should probably just kind of like walk
away from the situation but I don't know
if I would advocate for that but yeah so
I mean it just sounds incredibly
frustrating to try to like have a
relationship with your mom for sure
because my dad's like oh that's great
like anything we can do to help you know
I'm like awesome like I think she I
don't know if it's a common age and her
thinking I'm not capable of actually
doing
myself and also she thinks it's not able
to be done in a way of it's not what she
wants it to be done what is that like
for you very frustrating like I know
that I'm capable of doing it like
without her help even like it's nice and
I ain't like the help but she also like
kind of uses the fact that she helps me
as a means of I shouldn't ever be mad
anything she does so yeah so it sounds
like she uses her support is ammunition
mm-hmm yeah that's tonight sometimes
it's almost like a nice doing it to get
back at me when you're here
yeah right so she she uses the fact that
she helps you to invalidate other things
that you want to do how does that feel
um frustrating as well but also just
like disappointing I don't know what's
disappointing about it I think it's just
that I the other people's mom support
them like no never like I guess until I
feel like I would no matter what for
sure yeah your your support sounds very
conditional right
yeah that that sounds can I cuss on
stream okay so that sounds awful
I mean I felt like awful just doesn't do
it justice yeah yeah I'm so sorry yeah I
know it's a it's okay but I kind of
thought so it's not really okay yeah
good yeah so that that's great so so you
know that you know what you did just
that right there like that's actually
beautiful did you notice what you did
yeah so so I think that the part of
there's a part of you that's your mom
that would tell everyone it's okay right
right to keep up appearances because
like demonstrating any kind of
difficulty or pain or suffering or that
things are not perfect is completely
unacceptable
and and I think you just you just grew a
little bit there you grew a little bit
like you sort of freed yourself a little
bit from her shadow by sort of saying
actually it's not okay yeah and
sometimes things in life are just
they're just bad yeah you know and it
sounds like your mom in a lot of ways is
actually like a wonderful and supportive
person like I mean I feel like it's kind
of turning into a bashing session but
but I mean it does sound like she
financially supports you and she tries
to you know be there for you in her own
way and I have no doubt that in some
part of her mind she thinks that she's
really looking out for you yeah I think
so because she grew up with like her mom
was like that too but like a lot worse I
think according to like my dad at least
you know I wasn't there witnesses so I
don't know but um yeah and so I think
that may be the only way she knows how
to support so like not justifying it but
at the same time if she's ever taught
better like or tried to know better how
would you really know yeah so you're
it's good that you're not justifying it
what are you doing do you know um I
think I'm just trying to make it like
bearable yeah so I think in the way that
you're doing that is by trying to
understand it mm-hmm oh yeah for sure
like if I don't try to understand I'll
just get pissed off like yeah yeah so I
think you know federal we've kind of
covered a lot of ground today it's
gotten all over the place yeah I'm just
kind of wondering you know let's just
pause for a second and think a little
bit about how we want to spend time like
do you want to see if people have
questions or I mean I can keep going if
you want to keep going or we can sort of
call it and kind of talk about things or
the things that we haven't gotten to
what do you think honestly it's up to
you okay um I guess I'll I'll start
asking people you know if they have
questions oh I see H man's 13 was saying
that we should talk about positives yeah
we did that I think I don't know if that
was right around the time but so you
know if people have questions feel free
to ask them and I guess I'll keep on and
then we'll
check-in in about two or three minutes
okay sure so I think go for it kanga
okay great so Farrell um how do you
think about like what do you think about
so it's September right so you're in
undergrad I'm assuming yes okay and so
what are you what are you thinking about
this next year a lot the past few days
just kind of what I need to do to get
myself back on track to kind of go to PA
school so it's gonna be a long road but
I'm willing to fix the mistakes that I
made so yeah we're trying and what
mistakes have you made definitely my D
payslip and how kept up how far has it
slipped I mean in my eyes it's really
bad because I know I could have done
better but I'm not like a 2.8 2.9 right
now which is bad in the medical field
yeah absolutely yeah yeah so about to
retake some classes and luckily I've
kept up with like shadowing and I work
in a physician's office so I get a lot
of the hands-on contact with patients
yeah so that's good I I'd say you know
keep keep plugging away at it you know
if I can offer a little bit of advice
just keep keep at it
so I it took me so I graduated with a
2.5 or 2.6 GPA that are just colossal II
failing for two years and it took me
three years of applying and not getting
into medical school to finally get in
but you know I stuck with it and I
encourage you to do so I think you're so
ago I would have just quit as soon as it
got hard but now it's like okay well
it's gonna be hard but that's okay so
what's what's changed I think in knowing
why I want to do it and that I've tried
other things and I keep coming back to
it and that's what I want to do and like
I'm trying to move my stubbornness
around in a good way
yeah so where I'll keep being stubborn
about not
quitting versus being stubborn about
trying again I guess that's what I was
kind of like oh well I already gave up
on it so there's no point in trying
again you know yeah that's great so you
know you call it stubborn I'm gonna give
toss out another word resilient yeah
that sounds like a really resilient sir
yeah yeah you know it's funny because we
you know we use words like stubborn like
so what's the difference between
stubborn and perseverant do you know
absolutely so what I learned a couple
years ago is when I was applying and
failing to get into medical school year
after year people would tell me that I
was stubborn and that I should do
something else after I actually got in
they called me perseverant right so I
think stubborn is what people call you
while you're failing and persevering is
what they call you after you've
succeeded but it's basically the same
thing so I'd say stick with it I think
we have a one question that I saw that
whoop Allah asked and you know
completely fine if this feels off-limits
to you Farrell so he's asking about your
relationships since we've been talking
about your mom and dad already I'm
assuming he means romantic relationships
right so he's actually my boyfriend oh
so okay how are how are your
relationships okay so I think he's
saying it as a joke but we can
definitely ask questions if you want
yeah so you mentioned something about
you know sort of a lack of confidence
that had to do with your upbringing in
your relationships what what impact have
your relationships had on your
confidence currently a good one I've
only had two relationships so the first
one not good at all I think he was very
very very similar to my mom with like
what he would tell me I guess kind of
like make me feel less than yeah so that
I think I was also a fourteen to like
twenty whenever I dated him so that's
just I feel like a time of like a lot of
development and here not all through
that been difficult for sure yeah sounds
rough though yeah I think one of the
scariest things you know you know a lot
of times when
we're developing we're just you know
we're more you know you think about like
if you're putting together I can't even
think of a good analogy but like just
while we're developing we're kind of
really malleable and a lot of the things
that were exposed to yeah
really stick with us way longer than
they would have F afterward kind of
reformed right you know now I feel like
I was told to you know thing now I just
feel like like what's wrong with you
like leave me alone you know yeah
then it was like I didn't even know it
was wrong I guess so what do you think
it was that that caused you to stay in
the relationship for so long
um I think definitely I was like
manipulated into I think you know you
can be told that you're not good enough
but until they break you down to the
point where you believe it
that's when you start saying I think
that was very easy to give me that point
because our so young so yeah was he
older no a mage but he had older
siblings that kind of like well only one
of them um that kind of taught him I
guess like not directly but he saw it
there other people yeah I mean it's so
is it fair old I'm a little bit confused
you're smiling like why are you like
this is awful
yeah I think I just talked about it so
much at this point that it's almost like
humorous to me that I wouldn't even let
myself go through that yeah yeah why do
you think it's humorous
I would just never let myself do that
now you know yeah I think it's almost
like crazy that I did then but I don't
want to blame myself for it like I
didn't know any better
yeah so yeah sounds like you have you've
done a lot of growing yes yeah
definitely yeah I think you know
sometimes the the only thing that we can
do is laugh yeah when things get really
really awful I was thinking a little bit
about I don't know if you guys have seen
and maybe I'm opening a Pandora's box
here but Dave Chappelle recently had a
Netflix special that is very offensive
to many people the funny thing is that
over the last 10 days I'd say like 20 to
none of my patients have brought up his
like comedies like special or whatever
reason yeah and I think one of the
interesting things so one thing that one
person said who's been through a lot of
abuse is that he was kind of saying that
you know if you look at it like all of
the traditionally best comedians like if
you look at like in the kind of heyday
of comedy they were all like minorities
who were oppressed and abused and it's
all like Jewish people and black people
like early on like we're talking like
Richard Pryor Eddie Murphy you know I
mean this is like before even my time
but and I think we were talking a lot
about how sometimes like humor is just
what we have right when things are good
because it's like your choice between
laughing and crying yeah that's great
okay so I think you know unless you have
other any questions for me Farrell I
don't know um we've talked a lot so I
don't think I do have any guys in Bakula
yeah what was your impression of like
this past um I guess we've been talking
about for about 45 minutes like had it
had that feel for you good like I may
have felt a little bit nervous at first
but I definitely don't feel nervous at
all now yeah and it was really like
helps helpful for sure definitely
helpful helpful know how I think I
didn't like get into my own emotions and
don't really realize what's causing them
and so whenever I'm steered in the right
direction of figuring them out it's
helpful to me it just understand yeah i
i'm i'm glad that you that was your
impression because so first of all i
think you're great at this whatever this
is because i think you know I think
you've done a lot of like like thinking
through things and and working through
things kind of on your own which shows
yeah I also think you have a couple of
really important you've made a couple of
important transformations which I don't
think you kind of realized and I think a
lot of people need to make and I think
you're on a good path you know if
there's any way that I can support you
have my contact info or whatever so yeah
no I mean I work with a bazillion it
sounds like you know people in the
medical field
yes but you know if you ever have
questions or you know want me to review
a personal statement or anything like
that just know let me super helpful um I
I work with a lot of uh I think what are
you know it's funny I don't know their
twitch names but I work with a lot of
gamers who are interested in going into
medicine okay it which is just I guess
the people who are interested in going
into medicine are the ones that are try
hard enough to to reach out to me but
you know so I I think I think you're on
a good path and if I can support you in
some way let me know
um and then I think we'll maybe take any
any closing thoughts from your chat
either one thank you thank you
yeah yeah and you know if you wanna like
I'd love to check in with you again down
the road whenever you feel comfortable
or if you know if something if some of
these thoughts or feelings arise again
like if you get start to get wrapped up
in streaming or find yourself like you
know starting to be concerned about how
you're judged is that to by the way that
whole streaming conversation that's your
mom like you got that right Yeah right
so it's all about and that's what
happens is like we now have a system
where your mom is like operating based
on like facial expressions and tone but
now we can actually stick a number on
your value in society right and so it
can be really hard if you sort of if
you've been taught that and a lot of
what we're taught is based on what we
see growing up like you just think about
this I don't know if I mean I have kids
so I think I'm older than most of people
on Twitch but like the crazy thing is if
you just like look at kids like kids
just like they just learn language they
don't have to be taught language right
right they just learn how to talk yeah
so we learned so much about who we are
like how we operate based on how like
behavior is modeled like my kid was was
telling one of her teddy bears this
morning that she was getting irritated
with it and was about to lose her temper
right and like where did she learn how
to say that it was because my mom I mean
wowthat's Freudian my wife my wife was
like like saying the same thing at her
because she wasn't like eating her
oatmeal like she had asked for oatmeal
and was like so you know we pick up a
lot from our parents and I think that a
lot of what you've picked up I think you
picked it up from your mom and at the
same time you know that can have value
because one of the things that we forget
is that just because something causes
you suffering doesn't mean that it isn't
a positive trait in society so your
mom's like social awareness is probably
really important for her status and the
kinds of relationships she builds and
once again I'm making an assumption
about where you're from in Texas but I
know that there's a certain amount of
you know social intelligence that is
really important in running in certain
circles um so you know thank you for
sharing all that stuff I think you're on
an awesome part of your journey and I
think it's awesome that you've adopted a
more action orientation where you're
just kind of saying like it like
I'm gonna do what I'm gonna do and I'm
gonna do the best that I can and I'm a
kind of screw-up it may not be perfect
but hopefully that's okay and you'll
survive I mean and thanks a lot alright
thank you
take care
[Music]
you